hey guys all my videos are spontaneous
but this one's a little bit extra
spontaneous about us yen I was just
sitting here reading Aristotle and it
occurred to me to try to do a video
covering two topics in one kind of
compare and contrast them because I've
got such a long list of topics I'd like
to get to you before I run out of time
this month when September first rolls
around I'm back to school and my
video-making days are over over over
over for a semester at least um you know
two of the stupidest debates I've ever
engaged in on the Internet
both of them I know for a fact really
help people so when I was in France
recently I met face to face with someone
who's a longtime viewer the channel
longtime fan and supporter of the
channel and she told me right at the end
of talking as a total non sequitur she
said you know the videos you made
talking about secondhand leather really
impacted me and really changed my life
oh okay and it was just kind of wasn't
the topic we've been discussing it all
wasn't a natural segue you know I
appreciate it telling us oh wow thanks
and she went on to explain that for
years she'd felt totally fine about the
fact that her car had leather seats she
got in the details of when she bought
the car and so on she told herself it
was secondhand leather it was okay and
so on then she watched the videos I did
on that topic questioning the ethics of
second-hand leather and it really
changed her perspective it really
changed the way that she felt about it
you know forever and she said she really
thinks about it now I know every day or
every week or something that it
definitely haunts her she mentioned a
couple other ways in which my videos and
you know in that sense negatively
impacted her life me you know it's a
positive actually appreciates that she
has a she feels she has a deeper
appreciation for some of these these
issues in her life but but she does feel
feel badly about but she regrets the
decision she made in the past you
wouldn't make the same decisions again
in future because because of the burden
the person might Maya what channel is
put in her shoulders you know but the
actual origin those videos about
secondhand leather was one of the
stupidest to me astoundingly stupid
discussions or arguments I've ever had
with anyone on the internet and the guy
was talking to this was over discord it
was live voice chat with with an
audience with with witnesses um you know
he had all these really really weak
reasons for why he essay as a
quote/unquote vegan would wear leather
including that he cares a lot about
fashion he cares a lot about looking
stylish in this sort of thing I would he
accept that excuse from someone else
just to me it's mind blowing for someone
who calls themselves an ethical vegan to
make that excuse and he was you know he
could I could hear the tone of his voice
and everything he was he was being dead
serious and I asked him a really simple
question in response and this comes to
the kind of profound link to the two
topics I'm dealing with in this video I
asked him would you wear your secondhand
leather coat to a an animal rights
demonstration would you wear it to a
vegan protest or a vegan meetup as it
the exact same excuses you give me or
you've just told me with passion and
conviction how oh no no it's okay it's
totally alright it's totally fine it's
no problem
because you know it's uh you got it
secondhand and in one case it was a like
a hand-me-down from his brother or
something his brother had been wearing
the coat and his brother didn't have any
use for anymore you know with each of
these leather and fur coats the only a
different you know excuse for why the
the the bad karma you know didn't didn't
get a lot of them and of course suddenly
the question is in a very different
frame of reference and why simply
because someone is watching simply
because there's a role for observation
for the observer we have a witness right
now I think it's a very sad thing about
human nature that we don't value our own
judgment as much as we value the
judgement of an anonymous stranger or
group of strangers or peer group right
now of course this isn't something
inescapable this isn't something that
you know we're born with and can never
change in human nature but I think as
Tina
szura's children are growing up a lot of
us instinctually act and think this way
this is part of you like the the
unexamined life that's not worth living
and we have to examine our way our way
out of with philosophy but you know if
somebody told you and you may in your
life you may encounter people who say
this somebody told you that they were
vegetarian only when there were other
people around to see them but they're
willing to eat meat when nobody else was
around when there were no witnesses what
would you think of that that person what
do you mean
nobody's around what do you know well
nobody's gonna know you will you'll know
or aren't you
the most important witness of all or it
makes the decision and bears the
consequences and look there are many
consequences talked about here you know
yeah yeah yeah you can talk about
ecology you can talk about the animals
you talk about your health but I say
this again and again ultimately the
product we're questioning here is not
the leather jacket it's not a candy bar
it's not popcorn it's not anything that
comes to package the ultimate product
here is you the question we're going to
ask and we're gonna answer is what kind
of person that you want to be now if
you're a Muslim and you believe in
eating only halal meat then you're gonna
do that
even when you're all alone and there are
no witnesses there's nobody to hold you
accountable because you are gonna hold
yourself accountable if you're Jewish
and you believe it only eating kosher
food if you're jiying and you only
believe in following the giant religions
set of dietary laws then it's not gonna
rest on whether or not you can get away
with it they're not there are witnesses
because we know there's one witness in
the room and it's the witness that
matters most of all you know again I
think just if you take you know life and
politics and ethics there's they if you
take if you take things seriously that's
really all there is all there is to it
and you know for me this is linked to
another one of what I think are kind of
the stupidest conversations or debates
I've ever been engaged in the internet
that's been the debate with with the
anti-natal ists child-free is a
different kind of idea that has more to
do with
I'm not an idiot I'm not smart enough to
know life is stupid but I am smarter no
kids are a pain in the ass and I don't
have any use for one they're not gonna
do anything for me
I'm gonna have to do a bunch of [ __ ] for
them and I don't know how I win in that
game our existence we come into the
world breaking okay
broken and all we do is spend the rest
of our lives trying to glue ourselves
back together and that's it we don't
accomplish anything but you know one of
the things I've pointed out in debates
with and debates about antenatal Asst is
their view of the world depends on a
notion of objective tragedy objectively
real values I think this is true in both
cases they'll come back to the
second-hand fur coat I its most basic
there's a clinging to a notion that
moral values are objectively real apart
from the the perspective of the observer
and that's actually why in a subtle way
the absurdity of their their
philosophical positions revealed by just
introducing another observer into the
equation like oh well if you think it's
fine
if you think you have this rock-solid
argument it's completely convincing you
for why you can wear a fur coat or a
leather coat why don't you just wear it
to a vegan protest and you can tell
those people the same thing you told me
so passionately if you really believe in
this you know if you really believe in
eating kosher food you're gonna eat
kosher food all the time if you believe
in wearing second-hand leather and
second that fur you're gonna wear
secondhand leather and second-hand for
all the time it's not gonna change the
question of who's watching who's the
witness who's the observer but in the
same sense the anti-natal lists they'll
talk about the tragedy of having your
own child die you know before before you
yourself have died as a parent as if
this is some kind of objectively real
value that exists independent of the
person observing at perceiving it
suffering at experience it now my
daughter is five years old she has had a
wonderful life she's an incredibly
joyous happy kid at five she has not yet
seen many of the sorrows this
if he is suddenly struck by a bolt of
lightning and dies that's a tragedy
from my perspective for me that's a
tragedy whether or not that's a tragedy
for her I think is is almost meaningless
from the perspective of someone who
ceased to exist there is no that you
know her life its joys and sorrows are
completely at an end and whether or not
it's a tragedy from the perspective of
some kind of abstract some kind of
abstract notion like nature or all of
the human race or even say the Census
Bureau you know government Department of
Statistics this also becomes a bit
observed I'm now 39 years old I think
many people could say I've had a
wonderful life now unlike a
five-year-old I've had a life that
certainly had a great deal of sorrow a
great deal of suffering but nevertheless
I've had a wonderful life it's been
tremendously rewarding and interesting
and what have you
obviously so if I think about people
I've actually known people who have
known well enough to have an opinion I
don't know if I've ever met anyone who
have ever known anyone who had a better
life than I did a more wonderful life an
idea you know I'm sure they're out there
but in terms of the people were I've
liked even including my professors the
professors who've really shared with me
what their life has been like enough for
me to judge your own opinion so you know
there's a lot of people have to endure
suffering but that doesn't mean you
don't have a meaningful life what
wonderful life now nevertheless aged 39
if I'm struck by lightning and I die
tomorrow that would be a tragedy from my
mother's perspective but not from mine
you see it's like I had a full wonderful
life what are you talking about I saw
the Mekong River you know I saw
everything there was for me to see
whenever were there was me to go you
know
I've seduced beautiful women and been
seduced by them and whatever I was very
full life and if I managed to read
Aristotle's politics
twice once when I was 19 and once I was
39 what what a life um you know it's
it's a it's slightly absurd to say from
my perspective that my life would end in
tragedy I'm struck by lightning but sure
my mother my mother would say oh he was
only 39 you know he had so much
potential there were all these other
things he could have done with his life
all these other things weren't due for
her his tragedy right no in reality the
the quote-unquote objective perspective
that these people imagine it's really a
theological or theistic perspective they
imagine that there is some kind of God
whether that's a Christian God or not
observing these things and judging right
and wrong and good and bad and the
perspective of in mentem specifically
and if many of the antenatal is have
spoken to I guess I can say most but not
many because I haven't spoken to that
many but they really do rely on a kind
of crypto theological sense that
suffering and an evil and death that the
values these things have aren't their
subjective perspective it's not because
they love this particular child or they
love this particular middle-aged man
it's not because of their values and
their hopes and their aspirations not
from my perspective or another human
perspective that this is a tragedy this
is sad no no no they think there's an
absolute reality to this being evil the
experience of death being evil and
actually objectively there is no reason
why a human being dying should be more
evil than a human being falling asleep
and for many of us the experience of
death is precisely the same as falling
asleep after which we simply don't wake
up again so if you think one is evil
objectively I think you'd have to
believe the other is is evil also in
reality we live in a world where all the
things we consider objective are really
just intersubjective because a many
subjective people agree to disagree
about what they're supposed to mean or
what values they're supposed to have
and the flip side of this is from fajita
it's just hilarious the second hand
leather argument that no no because my
brother used to wear this coat
performing it's okay look objectively
this is no longer wearing the
dismembered body parts of an animal
objectively it's okay
except when you're around other vegans
right except when you're around people
who actually believe what it is you say
you believe isn't that an interesting
limit for where you're supposedly
objective supposedly real values and
judgments all come to an end
[Laughter]
all right guys there is a playlist on
nihilism some of my least popular and
most thought-provoking videos about my
own approach to epistemology metaphysics
philosophy in general check all
historical nihilism
we'll see what becomes of this channel
as I already said I'm going back to
school so you won't be quite so burdened
with videos expressing my my unpopular
political perspective otherwise guys
sports channel for $1 a month send me
messages on patreon amia a bonus yen